[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was taught growing up
that in order to be successful
in life, you had to try hard.
You had to be faster,
smarter, better, that there
was a lot of scarcity in the
world, a lot of limitation,
a lot of suffering, that
you could be kicked out
of your house, not
have enough to eat,
lose everything if you
weren't on top of it,
if you didn't have a
really good education,
and if you didn't work
really, really hard,
and really basically struggle.
>> Some of the background
or story that I lived with
and come from has to do with
early childhood and moving from
Israel, where I was born, and
learned how to speak Hebrew,
and went to kindergarten, and
then being moved from Israel,
where I had my comfort
zone, to Montreal,
Canada and put in grade one,
not understanding the French
language or the English
language and feeling at a very,
very young age that I didn't fit
in, that I wasn't smart enough,
and I wasn't deserving enough
of the teacher's attention
or the other kids' attention.
And that started, I guess,
an early childhood insecurity
in me that really lasted
till my early 20s.
That led me to doing some things
when I was in my early teens--
got in trouble with the law,
got in trouble in school,
got involved in a small
little street gang where we
did things that were illegal.
And it was where I fit in.
I felt good with these kids
and all the other misfits.
>> Because I had learning
problems as a child
and my first grade teacher
told me I would never be able
to read, or write,
or communicate,
never amount to anything,
never go very far in life.
>> You need to
have a profession.
You need to be serious.
You need to work.
And from that, I
learned that lesson.
And I went on to
business school.
And I went to the Wharton
School of Business,
and got a degree in finance, and
started working on Wall Street.
>> No matter what, no matter
what you do in your life,
if you live your life based
on other people's standards
and other people's judgments,
you're setting yourself up
for failure.
>> I definitely felt
pressure to go a certain path
for my career, partly
from family pressure,
the world I grew up in,
which was highly academic.
And being an actor, which I
was trying to do, was not OK.
>> There are a set
of people, I believe,
at Princeton University,
who came up with this idea
of a premature
cognitive commitment.
And it's an idea
that we will form,
as a result of our
experience, some belief
about the world
that will hold fast
during a certain
developmental time.
And it becomes our
perceptive reality forever.
A really good example
of that is in India
when they train baby elephants,
they will chain the elephant
to a big, heavy post.
Baby elephant tries like crazy
to get away, can't get away,
and after awhile will
develop a belief called
a premature cognitive commitment
that whenever something's
wrapped around its
leg, it's stuck there.
And I remember
reading about that
and then remembering
when I was a kid,
watching a newsreel or
a news program on TV
where there was this
building on fire in India.
And there was an elephant
tied up in front of it,
and was screaming and trying
to get away, but it wouldn't.
It wouldn't walk away.
And it just had a little
rope around its foot.
Finally, some person
came and led him away.
And I thought, that elephant
just could have kicked the rope
off like that and walked
away, but thought he couldn't.
And human beings
operate the same way.
>> Some of us get beliefs
and ideas that we can't do
anything.
And so we just give up.
And of course, that makes
the situation a bit worse.
>> One of the challenges I
think people have is that once
you've developed
a limiting belief,
whether you got it from
learning from your mom and dad,
or it's our culture, or it's
some set of experiences you
had, you'll tend to operate
through that as though
it's reality.
And so a lot of times
you won't consider
anything else
because your reality
is what this limiting belief is.
>> The subconscious mind wants
two things for you, just two.
It wants your physical
survival, and it
wants your conceptual survival.
Most of us have formed
a concept of who we are
and what life is about
by the age of 10.
And so we've literally
got this 10-year-old
running our life force.
>> My father was a taxi driver.
He made, at the time,
$20,000 to $25,000 a year.
My mother worked as a seamstress
at a local department store.
When people bought their
clothes that they needed hemmed,
she was the person who helped.
And so we lived a modest life.
We had food on the table.
We had clothes on our backs,
but we didn't have anything
more than that.
And one thing I remember
is there was always
fighting in my
home around money,
or maybe the lack of money is
where the fighting came in.
My father had a gambling
addiction to horses and cards.
So he would work from
5:30 in the morning
till 5, 6 o'clock at night,
make his money for the day,
come home for dinner,
then go out and play cards
or go to the horse racing.
And by the end of the
night, most days there
was no more money, so
he went back to work.
And they always fought about
there wasn't enough money.
We used to joke that there
was always too much month
left at the end of the money.
But it was a constant fight
between my parents, myself,
and my brother, and my sister.
We used to close our door
so we wouldn't have to hear
the fighting between them.
>> I was very focused on getting
ahead in life by the only means
I understood how,
which was go to school,
get a good education,
get a good job,
and succeed in the system that
is available to me to succeed
within--
play the game by
the rules and win.
>> I worked really hard for a
couple years and figured that
maybe if I started
my own business,
I would be more successful and
then get to this place where I
could be happy, and fulfilled,
and have everything I want.
And I started my own business.
And I worked like a
maniac all the time.
I was checking the markets
every two hours in the evenings.
I wasn't sleeping, so I
was checking the markets
and basically working
in a job that I hated,
but I was good at it.
>> I think this idea
where people need to play
by the rules comes off
and out of our childhoods,
where in our family system
it was the way to behave.
And so we learned how to
behave in that system,
and it actually worked.
And maybe it was the best
choice we could possibly make.
And as we get older,
that way of behaving
doesn't necessarily fit
in the bigger world,
and we have to really
identify that and begin
to drop those things off.
I think most of us
can remember times
when we were outside our
family system as a child
and we started noticing other
families didn't necessarily
have the same rules as we do.
But we still operate out of--
those are the rules
that worked as a kid.
This is the way I get love.
This is the way I get ahead.
It's why I get appreciation.
And so I think
recognizing that belief
set that get installed
as kids may have worked
in that context, but it won't
work in the bigger world
necessarily.
>> And so when you're
looking at these programs,
much of what goes
awry with people,
much of what seems to be
dysfunction is actually
the subconscious mind trying to
sustain your concept of who you
are, to be true to your concept.
Because one of the primary
rules of the subconscious mind,
one of the primary things
that it tries to do
is make you right.
So if you think you're an
idiot, the subconscious mind
is going to allow you
to only notice things
that you do that are
idiotic so that you sustain
that belief in what you hold.
And so to change the trajectory
that any individual, even
in a group of
individuals, is to change
their concept, the
concept of, who am I
as a human being, who are we
as a community, who are we
as a world?
What are we here for?
Those are all concepts.
And we can change
those concepts.
>> And I see so many people that
are not enjoying this process.
They're not living their life.
And again, go to the mall,
just look in their eyes.
They're not home.
They're not enjoying
this process.
They're thinking,
when I get this dress,
maybe he's going to like me.
When I buy these shoes,
maybe I'll be cool at school.
You're already cool.
Be vulnerable.
Be real.
Find your tribe.
Find your group.
That's what abundance is.
Believe me, there's billions
of people in the world.
There's people that love
everything that you do,
but you've got to find them.
And how you find them,
you don't find them
by being fake and trying
to be somebody you're not.
You find them by
being real, authentic,
and living your life
because that's what
other people are attracted to.
>> When I was doing the
things in my teens that I
shouldn't have been doing, I
think the dominant emotion was
fear.
>> There was a certain point
at which I realized that
in my striving, in my intense
determination and dedication
to the cause of
being successful,
becoming knowledgeable,
getting a good job,
succeeding in life and career,
that actually what I was doing
was running.
I was running from
my fear of scarcity.
I was so scared that I would
end up back in a position
where I didn't have
material abundance.
>> I always had this thought
that there was a someday.
Someday it was all
going to come together,
and someday I was going to
have enough money to retire,
and I wasn't going to have to
take anybody's stuff anymore,
and I could be my own person.
There was always that someday.
And that someday was always
six months away, a year away,
five-- whatever it
was, it was always--
it's like a carrot that kept
getting dangled a little bit
further in front of me.
>> Ernest Holmes said that life
is a mirror and that whatever
you think will be
reflected back to you.
And so when people are
filled with scarcity thinking
and they're thinking fearful
thoughts, then that's what gets
reflected back to them.
And I know that sounds like
it's sometimes hard to be true,
but if you think about the
reticular activating system
in our brain, that's
the part of our brain
that allows us to filter
information in and filter
information out.
And so what happens
is if you're coming
from scarcity-type
thinking, then that's
what you're going to be
sorting for unconsciously,
and that's what you're
going to draw back in.
So it gets reflected back
to you like a mirror.
And so the first action
that people can really take
is to begin to start
monitoring what
their internal thoughts are.
>> When you are living an
intuitive, authentic life,
that's where true safety is.
It's not in following the rules.
It's not in doing things
the way someone else
tells you how to do them.
It's when you are listening to
your true, authentic, intuitive
self.
>> So security is not in a job.
No one else can
give you security.
Security comes from you
and your capabilities,
and your capabilities to create
value for other people and get
paid for it.
That's the only
security there is.
There is no other
security, in my opinion.
>> It's a paradox that
our fears about scarcity,
our fears about our safety lead
us to a place that's unsafe,
that scarcity is the
place that's not safe,
that abundance is the
place where the safety is.
Abundance is the place
where the love is.
where generosity can be.
Abundance is the place
where we can be, and thrive,
and grow together,
where we're not alone,
where we're connected,
where we're interconnected.
Abundance is the place,
the internal place.
The external place comes
from that internal place.
That internal place of
abundance is where all of that's
possible.
It's not happening in scarcity.
It's not happening in fear.
It's not happening in
competition, and envy,
and adversity, and jealousy.
The good stuff
doesn't exist there.
The good stuff exists in
love and abundance of love.
[MUSIC PLAYING]